0001 It’s been argued that spell-checkers make authors lazy, and that writers at any level with access to a spell-checker make more mistakes than those without. I suspect that this is a case where average behaviour is meaningless—for some people it is an essential tool, while for others it is little more than a distraction. However, spell-checkers are at best a partial solution, and do not allow an author to avoid the task of a thorough proofread.
0002 Yes, data is an ‘it’—not a ‘them’—in this context, because I am not referring to a numerable quantity, or a set made up in a meaningful way of individual datums [sic], but to a form of information. Pedantry may be with ‘them’, but usage isn’t.
0003 Here I use ‘cute’ in the sense that is closer to nauseating than to sweet. Please take the hint.
0004 However, it is not a good idea to open up the files while they are on the USB drive—instead, first copy them to your hard disk. Currently (2014), the USB drives can burn out if they are being accessed continuously. If used as backup only, though, even the cheap ones will last for years.
0001 A research fellow who worked for me, who already had a PhD, had a similar problem. He would start work on a tightly defined problem, working to a particular paper submission deadline, and would quickly achieve his initial goals. However, in the process he would identify new issues, and set out to resolve them to make sure the paper was ‘complete’. Pretty soon the scale of the work would expand to a PhD, or more, and he would have so many doubts in his original, strong result that he couldn’t publish. That is, the moment he achieved something—no matter how innovative or useful or surprising—he would race on to supersede or invalidate it, and as a result never had anything he was comfortable reporting. I have no idea how his PhD supervisor managed to get him to submit a thesis! In 2 years working for me, he produced a massive amount of work but no papers. Working to constraints is a key element in being an effective researcher.
0002 Let me emphasize the word ‘background’—you are kidding yourself if you think you can be at your most productive while listening to music that consumes your attention, or while watching television for that matter.
0003 A student of mine persisted with work on an algorithm that I ‘knew’ was foolish, and ended up with a strong result and a paper in a top journal. But this case was a rare exception.
0004 This was in the 1980s. In my view Robert should not have deliberately wasted a week of his student’s time, although it does seem that the lesson was an effective one. I sometimes use this same anecdote as an example of the kind of treatment of students that was once common but now, happily, seems to be dying out.
0001 GW  Turner  (ed.),  The Australian  Concise  Oxford  Dictionary,  Oxford  University  Press,  Melbourne, 1987. ‘Consider an archer: her aim is to put the arrow in the bull’s eye. She might have a hypothesis that if she was shooting in a northerly direction and the wind was blowing from the east at 10 m per second she would have to shoot at a point 2° to the right of the bull’s eye. She could quite easily test this hypothesis by shooting a group of arrows at the bull’s eye and another group 2° to the right. When she had tested her hypothesis she would be in a better position to achieve her original aim, which was to get arrows in the bull’s eye.’
0001 All too often the answers to these questions are ‘they don’t seem to know themselves’ and ‘no’. I’m not kidding—it is remarkable how often researchers don’t appear to have a clear idea of why they are doing a particular piece of work.
0001 This is a good place to remind you that my descriptions of research are to some extent fictionalized. That is, except where a citation is given, I have used real students and research questions, but have altered the research descriptions in ways that I feel preserves their ‘feel’ while making them both anonymous and more accessible to a general reader.
