0001 This work is based on the results and contributions of seven major studies that have been published in peer-reviewed  journals,  conference  proceedings,  and  publicly  accessible  online  repositories.  Most  of these studies are parts of joint research endeavors together with my esteemed colleagues Timm Teubner, Marc T.P. Adam, David Dann, Fabian Braesemann, and Otto Hans-Martin Lutz. They will be indicated as such in the respective chapters of this dissertation.
0002 Please note, however, that this short paper is not part of this dissertation as it represents a distillation of the more fine-grained results presented in Chapters 3 and 4.
0003 This contribution won the award for best short paper in the “Sharing Economy, Platforms and Crowds” track and was nominated as best overall conference paper.
0004 One may wish to distinguish multi-method research, which, in its simplest definition, employs more than one method in a single study (e.g., either two quantitative or two qualitative) from mixed method research,  which  combines  both  quantitative  and  qualitative  methods  within  one  study  (Petter  and Gallivan 2004)
0005 This  study  was  published  in  the  proceedings  of  the  Hawaii  International  Conference  on  System Sciences with the title “Understanding the Platform Economy: Signals, Trust, and Social Interaction” (Hesse, Dann, et al. 2020); see https://doi.org/10.24251/HICSS.2020.631.
0006 See Appendix for further details.
0007 Low: e-commerce; Medium: carsharing, accommodation; High: mobility, crowd work
0008 This study was published in Electronic Markets – The International Journal on Networked Business with the title “Reputation Portability – Quo Vadis?” (Hesse and Teubner 2020a); see https://doi.org/10.1007/s12525-019-00367-6.
0009 Besides transaction-based  reputation  mechanisms, the list of such artifacts includes profile  images, self-descriptions, identity verifications (incl. social media presence) and implicit information, such as badges, membership duration, and number of transactions (Teubner and Dann 2018).
0010 There is an ongoing debate among legal scholars about the ownership of transaction-based feedback in the form of reviews; we touch upon this aspect in Section 4.
0011 See Appendix for a detailed list of considered search  terms.  In total, 42 terms (excl. combinations) were  derived.  These  include  “reputation  transfer”,  “cross-platform  signaling”,  “review  portability”, “reputation  aggregation”,  “digital  identity  management”,  “reputation  economy”,  and  various combinations  of  terms  such  as  reputation,  signal,  rating,  review,  platform,  aggregation,  portability, transfer. To specify the search in an additional step, we used combinations with platform names (e.g., eBay, Airbnb, and Uber).
0012 Note that within the context of research in the field of electronic markets, we focus predominantly on the  economic  dimension  of  reputation  portability  (incl.  its  legal  and  technological  triggers  and implications). Other aspects such as societal, ethical, and cultural dimensions are an important part of the general topic, though, for the sake of focus and brevity, we chose to only briefly touch upon these items where applicable.
0013 Note  that  laws  such  as  the  EU’s  General  Data  Protection  Regulation  (GDPR)  or  the  California Consumer  Privacy  Act  (CCPA)  apply  to  platforms  universally,  that  is,  irrespective  of  their  home jurisdiction, so long as they are active in the European Union (or in California, and hence the United States (US), respectively).
0014 Or,  more  generally,  distributed  ledger  technology  (DLT)  of  which  blockchains  form  a  subset  of (Burkhardt et al. 2018). We use both terms interchangeably.
0015 The  other  TRI-elements  used  were:  host  verification,  guest  reviews,  host  reviews,  social  media presence, number of reviews, and star rating.
0016 Examples were selected in a structured way: as they occurred in the academic literature that was found in the search process (see Section 3) or based on a list of previous startups working on solutions to gather and aggregate reputational data from across online services (Botsman 2012). It is quite remarkable that, at the time of writing, none of the companies is still in existence. However, the list served as a starting point for our search of current players. An additional search of non-scientific work around reputation portability was conducted, for instance, on company websites or – in the case of blockchain technology – in (technical) whitepapers.
0017 For  example,  Airbnb  offers  such  an  “export  functionality”  in  that  it  enables  users  to  copy  an HTML-code  of  reviews  they  have  received  and  embed  this  badge  on  personal  websites  or  blogs: https://www.airbnb.com/users/badges (only accessible when logged in).
0018 As happened with reputation earned on Stack Overflow, a question and answer page for programmers; eventually  headhunters  screened  the  platform  for  high-scoring  developers  with  specific  skill  sets (Botsman and Rogers 2010).
0019 We had the opportunity to talk to Uber’s CEO for East Africa, Alfred Msemo; the company plans to extend these services throughout the region and looks into more innovative ways to make use of drivers’ reputation scores.
0020 Incl. Alibaba Group, WeChat owner Tencent, and the leading Chinese ride-sharing and online-dating services.
0021 Note that the project’s CEO is Eric Ly, co-founder and former CTO at LinkedIn.
0022 However, there might still be fees involved for validation of transactions on the network.
0023 There are, however, significant legal challenges associated with storage and sharing of patient data that we chose to not further dwell on here.
0024 Usually paid out in the respective blockchain’s underlying cryptocurrency.
0025 A  consortium  bringing  together  governments  as  well  as  public  and  private  organizations  such  as Accenture, Microsoft, the open source blockchain consortium Hyperledger (with Linux, IBM, SAP), and the  United  Nations.  Besides  such  joint  approaches  to  establish  decentral  digital  identity,  several  big technology  companies  are  eyeing  opportunities  to  build  decentral  solutions  for  the  management  of individual’s  social,  professional,  and  financial  data.  Among  those  are  IBM’s  Verify  Credentials, Microsoft’s planned Identity Overlay Network (ION) for decentralized identity (DID) built on top of the Bitcoin blockchain, and Hyperledger’s shared infrastructure toolkit Aries for DLT-based digital identity management.
0026 We thank the reviewer for the valuable idea of developing these scenarios.
0027 This  study  was  published  in  the  proceedings  of  the  Hawaii  International  Conference  on  System Sciences  with  the  title  “Takeaway  Trust:  A  Market  Data  Perspective  on  Reputation  Portability  in Electronic Commerce” (Hesse and Teubner 2020b); see https://doi.org/10.24251/HICSS.2020.629.
0028 See Appendix for further details.
0029 This study was originally submitted to the journal Business & Information Systems Engineering and carries the title “In stars we trust – A note on reputation portability in digital platform ecosystems”. It is currently undergoing the third round of reviews. This version is based on the first revised manuscript.
0030 Several  other  mechanisms  to  establish  reputation  portability  are  conceivable,  including  Personal Information Management Systems (PIMS) and distributed ledger technology. These were discussed in EU  reports  and  previous  literature  (e.g.,  European  Data  Protection  Supervisor  2016;  see  Hesse  and Teubner 2020a for an overview).
0031 Please note that 𝑓𝑗(𝑟𝑒, 𝑟𝑖) represents a conceptual function here and not a regression. We hence do not include residual/error terms in this representation.
0032 Please note that the value of exactly 2.9 stars (as well as other specific values utilized in this context), has a representative and indicative character. Certainly, any import threshold will depend at least on 1) the specific distribution (and skewness) of ratings on the source platform and 2) the applied rating scale. For the sake of exemplary computations and to derive sufficiently generalizable implications, we assume similar consumer perceptions of rating distributions across platforms and use a 5-star rating scheme.
0033 Both thresholds are based on consumers’ trust in complementors.
0034 We assume the availability of both ratings.
0035 However,  the  idea  of  having  to  pay  for  their  own  reputation  may  not  necessarily  resonate  with complementors.
0036 This study was published in the proceedings of the International Conference on Information Systems with the title “Gazing at the Stars: How Signal Discrepancy Affects Purchase Intentions and Cognition” (Hesse, Lutz, et al. 2020) and won the award for best short paper in the Sharing Economy, Platforms and Crowds track; see https://aisel.aisnet.org/icis2020/sharing_economy/sharing_economy/8/.
0037 The theory’s applicability to human decision making has proven wildly successful and Kahneman was awarded the Nobel prize, “having integrated insights from psychological research into economic science […]  concerning  human  judgment  and  decision-making  under  uncertainty”  (NobelPrize  2002).  The authors’ seminal work reached over 50.000 citations in the academic literature.
0038 This study was first published as a working paper on ResearchGate with the title “Exploring the design of  reputation  portability  in  digital  platform  ecosystems  –  A  hybrid  approach”  (Hesse  2020);  see https://doi.org/10.13140/RG.2.2.20583.47520.
0039 For  instance,  the  e-commerce  platforms  and  self-labeled  eBay  alternatives  Bonanza.com  and TrueGether.com.
0040 We used MAXQDA software to analyze the qualitative data set (Kuckartz and Rädiker 2019).
0041 This full thematic framework includes both the five overarching themes and nineteen sub-themes.
0042 Due to the  extent of data  variety, sub-themes come  in different forms: as fully realized  patterns of shared meaning united around a core concept (Braun and Clarke 2019) or – for instance, in the case of less consensus – as domain patterns capturing the diversity of meaning with regard to a particular focus area (Boyatzis 1998). Our research question and the novelty of the investigated topic justify this nuanced representation of (sub-)themes.
0043 As a matter of fact, Airbnb readily provides such a badge to platform users in the form of an exportable HTML-code.
0044 Note, however, that (beyond re-contacting interviewees for clarification) we chose to omit this step since it is not desirable practice according to Braun and Clarke (2006)’s reflexive approach to thematic analysis. It promotes the active, interpretive role of the researcher and, hence, does not necessarily seek to provide an account of the data that is recognizable to study participants.
0045 Therefore,  their  websites,  as  refenced  in  pre-published  parts  of  this  dissertation  and  listed  in  the Reference section of this work, are inaccessible at the current point in time.
0046 This survey was administered online via Prolific.co and Google Forms. It was conducted across five different platform types (i.e., accommodation, carsharing, mobility, e-commerce, crowd work). Here, an excerpt from the survey on “Mobility Platforms” is shown exemplary. Wording, logos, and introductory texts were adapted slightly between surveys to fit the specific platform type. The overall study content and  questions  remained  identical  across  contexts.  Please  refer  to  Chapters  1  and  3  for  further information on the study’s methodology, specific items to be rated by respondents, and sample.
0047 Notes: 1)  As of June 2019; patents were excluded from the list of results. 2)  Besides these  terms, various combinations of terms such as reputation, signal, rating, review, platform, aggregation, portability, transfer were searched (using Boolean operators AND/OR). 3)  To specify the search in an additional step, we used combinations with platform names.
0048 Measured on 11-point Likert scales
0049 Per host/guest combination
